docs(tip-1094): zone virtual deposit addresses (#6897)
tempoxyz/tempo: tips/tip-1094.md

---
id: TIP-1094
title: Zone Virtual Deposit Addresses
description: Zone-specific virtual deposit addresses that conceal the L1 virtual-address master while preserving deposit attribution.
authors: Dan Robinson
status: Draft
related: TIP-1022, TIP-403
protocolVersion: TBD
---

# TIP-1094: Zone Virtual Deposit Addresses

## Abstract

> This TIP defines **zone virtual deposit addresses**, a reserved 20-byte address format for depositing TIP-20 tokens into a Tempo zone. A deposit address identifies the zone publicly but encrypts a TIP-1022 `masterId` and a 2-byte `userTag` under a zone-specific key. An ordinary TIP-20 transfer to a zone virtual deposit address **is** the deposit: the TIP-20 transfer path detects the format at the protocol level, locks the funds in the destination zone's portal, and appends an entry to the portal's deposit queue with the original destination intact. The zone then decrypts the address inside its own execution, resolves the `masterId` through the immutable TIP-1022 registry on Tempo, and mints to the corresponding 20-byte `masterAddress` inside the zone — or bounces the funds back to the sender if anything fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This TIP defines **zone virtual deposit addresses**, a reserved 20-byte address format for depositing TIP-20 tokens into a Tempo zone via ordinary TIP-20 transfers.

A deposit address identifies the zone publicly but encrypts a TIP-1022 `masterId` and a 2-byte `userTag` under a zone-specific key. An ordinary TIP-20 transfer to a zone virtual deposit address initiates a deposit: the TIP-20 transfer path detects the format at the protocol level, locks the funds in the destination zone's portal, and appends an entry to the portal's deposit queue with the original destination intact. The zone then decrypts the address inside its own execution, resolves the `masterId` through the immutable TIP-1022 registry on Tempo, and mints to the corresponding 20-byte `masterAddress` inside the zone — or bounces the funds back to the sender if anything fails.
```

---
id: TIP-1094
title: Zone Virtual Deposit Addresses
description: Zone-specific virtual deposit addresses that conceal the L1 virtual-address master while preserving deposit attribution.
authors: Dan Robinson
status: Draft
related: TIP-1022, TIP-403
protocolVersion: TBD
---

# TIP-1094: Zone Virtual Deposit Addresses

## Abstract

This TIP defines **zone virtual deposit addresses**, a reserved 20-byte address format for depositing TIP-20 tokens into a Tempo zone via ordinary TIP-20 transfers.

A deposit address identifies the zone publicly but encrypts a TIP-1022 `masterId` and a 2-byte `userTag` under a zone-specific key. An ordinary TIP-20 transfer to a zone virtual deposit address initiates a deposit: the TIP-20 transfer path detects the format at the protocol level, locks the funds in the destination zone's portal, and appends an entry to the portal's deposit queue with the original destination intact. The zone then decrypts the address inside its own execution, resolves the `masterId` through the immutable TIP-1022 registry on Tempo, and mints to the corresponding 20-byte `masterAddress` inside the zone — or bounces the funds back to the sender if anything fails.

> Only the zone sequencer can recover the recipient metadata. L1 observers can identify the destination zone and correlate repeated use of the same deposit address, but cannot determine the recipient without the zone key or auxiliary information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the zone sequencer can recover the recipient metadata. L1 observers can identify the destination zone and correlate repeated use of the same deposit address, but cannot determine the recipient without the zone key or auxiliary information.

Owners of a `masterId` can request their list of virtual deposit addresses from the zone sequencer, which it can derive using a secret key that is part of the zone state. Each `masterId` corresponds to 65,536 virtual deposit addresses, and observers who do not know the zone sequencer's secret key cannot distinguish addresses that share a `masterId` from ones that do not.
```
